[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> South America, the Western
side of this mysterious
continent holds a collection
of sites that have puzzled
mainstream and
alternative researchers.
From the ancient cave
systems of Ecuador
to the megalithic construction
found in Bolivia and Peru,
this anomalous
land has been home
to several ancient
civilizations.
Containing the most
concentrated collection
of unearthed sacred
sites in South America,
Peru is becoming an
epicenter of archeology.
Why was this land chosen
by our ancient ancestors?
Did these mighty civilizations
work with other species
to energize the power
of this sacred land?
As the archeological
evidence mounts,
the argument for an ET
presence and influence
in this powerful land
is gaining momentum.
What other evidence does
this mysterious region
hold that challenges
the mainstream
understanding of the rise
of human civilizations?
>> In the mid-20th century, the
thinking that was taught in all
the schools throughout
Western civilization was that
civilization itself began in a
place that is called the Tigris
Euphrates.
New discoveries now have
changed that thinking.
And rather than a single
cradle of civilization,
scientists now
believe that there
were as many as seven
simultaneous cradles
of civilization.
Those cradles are Mesopotamia
and the Tigris Euphrates, number
1; India, and number 2; China,
number 3; Egypt, number 4;
Europe, number 5; Mesoamerica,
number 6; and Peru, number 7.
Peru may be one
of the last places
where we find so
many of the mysteries
of our past undisturbed,
unexcavated.
Civilization has
not found its way
into the Peruvian mountains
the way it has into Europe,
into North America.
And for that reason,
we're only beginning
to understand
precisely what Peru
means in these cradles
of civilization.
>> When you get to South America
and you enter countries such
as Peru and Bolivia that we know
are full of these incredible
ancient ruins, you become aware
of just how strange the mindsets
of these people in the
past actually were.
And we're talking about
peoples that go back
many, many thousands of years.
Some would even suggest
as many as 10,000 years.
And you realize that you're
dealing with something
wholly different.
>> Peru seems to be one of these
rural grid points in antiquity,
where there was a lot
of activity going on.
The Peruvian Incan myths
talk about interaction
with these star beings.
And it could be that
this area of Peru
was a major hub, almost like
a galactic airport for beings
coming in and out of the
Earth, settling, doing trade.
>> You have to start looking
at who these ancient Peruvians,
who these ancient Bolivian
peoples actually were,
where they came from, whether
they truly are the Indigenous
peoples of this area, or whether
they themselves may have had
help from outside,
from elsewhere.
>> In ancient South America,
there are so many Indigenous
cultures that we've barely
scratched the surface
in understanding who
these people were,
what their beliefs were,
what their practices were,
and why they did the
things that they did.
>> Look at what the ancestors,
particularly the Aymara,
one of the oldest people on the
planet that no one ever gives
any credit to.
Only 9,000 people left.
They have an invented
language, which the syntax can
be understood by a computer.
Now, where did that come from?
Aymara did not develop
as an organic language.
It appears fully
developed, with a syntax
that a computer can understand?
That's not local.
>> What this tells us is that
there are incredible mysteries
still to be revealed
within the Andes.
>> Situated roughly 1,700
feet above modern sea level,
Nazca is home to strange
geoglyphs and lines formed
into the landscape.
Several ET theories have
surfaced since the rediscovery
of these landscape
wonders, and the proximity
to famous pre-diluvian sites,
like Sacsayhuamán and Machu
Picchu.
>> Ever since the publication
in the late 1960s of Erich Von
Däniken's book,
Chariots of The Gods,
has the focus been on Peru, and
in particular the Nazca lines.
They're one of the most
enigmatic mysteries
in the world.
What are they?
Why were they created?
Why do they look
like runways that
could have been used by
extraterrestrials visiting
this planet?
>> These lines are gigantic.
You know, there are
two sorts of lines--
small ones, just 1 meter
large, and large ones,
which are 30 meters large.
Now, the longest
of the small lines
is 23 kilometers on one line
over hills and mountains
straight away, going directly.
We don't know why.
Then the so-called
large lines, the locals,
they speak Spanish there,
they call it "las pistas,"
the pistas, the airstrips.
They look like airstrips.
And these airstrips,
these pieces are gigantic.
That's the real
mystery of Nazca.
>> Another mystery from the
ancient Peruvian past was
unearthed in Paracas.
In 1927, archeologist
Julio Tello
recovered hundreds
of elongated skulls
from this desert peninsula.
Tello's discovery
created new questions
around the potential
extraterrestrial influence
in ancient Peru.
>> What's so interesting about
this is if it were one or two
skulls, then scientists could
say, OK, it's an anomaly.
It's a one-off.
The fact that we
are still finding
these skulls and
the characteristics
that they show us.
For example, we know that
these skulls typically
do not have the sutures that
a human skull will have.
These are the places where
the soft bones of an infant
come together.
They move so that when the baby
passes through the birth canal,
the head can conform
to the birth canal
and the mother can
survive the process.
What we find in
the Paracas skulls
is those sutures
are not possible,
suggesting that these
beings may not have
been the product of live birth.
>> In Paracas, what was
found was that when you look
at the skulls of these gods,
is that the cubic capacity
of the skulls is much
greater than the human skull.
Now you can deform the
shape of a baby's head
by sitting there
with a piece of cloth
and slowly squeezing the skull
while it's still forming.
The problem is
that when you look
at those skulls in the museums,
they look like coneheads,
and there's no other
way to describe it.
But these skulls are different.
They're unusual,
that's for sure.
But there's an
elegance about them,
as though there was part
of a genetic makeup.
And it does turn
out that, yes, you
can extend the
shape of the skull,
but you can't change the
cubic capacity of the skull.
And these skulls, which still
have the red hair firmly
attached on them, are 30%
greater cubic capacity,
which means we're dealing
with someone who is human-like
but not quite human.
>> We know that these skulls
have been found in other parts
of the world as well.
And what the historians
typically say,
is that the people of the time
will deform the baby skulls
intentionally to make it look
like the skulls of beings that
have been with them
in the past, that
had abilities, that had powers,
that had insights and knowledge.
And the thinking is if they
could make their babies' heads
look like those
with the abilities
that their babies will
have those abilities.
>> With the discovery
of the elongated skulls,
the Paracas skulls in the 1920s,
it really started to get us
to wonder if there was an
extraterrestrial influence upon
the ancient peoples of Peru.
Could it be this is why
the ancient people are
so difficult to understand,
because maybe they
had an extraterrestrial
influence guiding
the course of
their civilization,
and that's something
we just don't quite
understand in today's world?
>> The Paracas skull seems
to be an incredible link
to an otherworldly civilization
that has a desire to bump up
humanity,
intellectually speaking.
The human brain, throughout
history, and especially when
you look at the history
of our interaction
with extraterrestrial
civilizations
and their augmentation
of the human body,
it's the brain where they're
focusing their effort.
We know that 200,000 years ago,
the neocortex of the brain was
mysteriously activated.
It's been proposed cosmic rays,
group sex, eating proteins,
psychedelic mushrooms were
all the trigger for that.
But then there's
another perspective
that it was the fusing
of two chromosomes that
enabled that activation.
And it's very important
because without the activation
of the neocortex, we don't have
civilization as we know it.
All our art, our science, music,
all of civilization and culture
drops out of this
activation of the neocortex.
What if that was just the start?
What if they themselves were
this super advanced civilization
that entered into
the Earth plane,
and they're the ones with
this extreme cranial capacity,
as evidenced by, say,
the Paracas skull,
and this is what they
ultimately envision for us?
>> Does Peru hold the
secrets of the past?
I think the recent research
done there can unlock something,
and it's going to
be a key that could
be changing the world
and our perception
of the people of the past.
And could it be that there
was this intervention
many, many centuries ago to make
the Paracas skulls elongated?
What's their DNA as well?
Basically, we have yet another
mystery rising out of Peru.
>> In 2016, a discovery was made
in a cave near Nazca that caught
the attention of
journalist Jaime Maussan.
This began a thorough
investigation
into a potential new species
that once inhabited this land.
>> In October-November 2016, I
saw some videos through internet
and YouTube of this man in Peru
presenting little bodies that
didn't look human.
He presented a huge hand.
It didn't look human.
He said that they were found
in a tomb in the middle
of the desert near Nazca.
Then I didn't pay
attention because I
thought they were fakes.
It was a hoax.
I don't like it.
I don't feel right when
someone wants to be anonymous.
But in March 2017, a biologist
called me and said, Jaime,
look at this.
This is very interesting.
And I said, I have
to go to Peru.
Then I got involved with Gaia.
And I said, Gaia, do you
want to come with me?
Because this is good,
this is important.
And I think we could
go with cameras
and try to document this.
>> Joining Dr. Konstantin
Korotkov from Russia,
Jaime and a small group were
taken to a secret location near
Nazca.
>> And we have a very
important mission here in Peru.
I came here together with
a group of scientists,
professionals, journalists,
because we were supposed to see
maybe one of the most important
discovery of the 21st century.
>> The team was shown the
well-preserved skeletal remains
of the body, now
referred to as María.
Though several sections of the
body strongly resembled a human,
the elongated skull and the
anomalies of her three fingers
and toes immediately changed
the implications and importance
of this discovery.
>> It can change the
consciousness of humanity
as a whole.
And all our concepts about
history, about development,
those are just concepts.
And this opens up absolutely
new page of history.
No doubts that it is a
tremendous discovery.
In our research with María's
body, we had several steps.
Our first step was to
prove that it's real,
that it's not plastic.
It's not paper,
and it's ancient.
So we did carbon
dating and, of course,
we did analysis of
structural body from CAT scan
and from X-ray.
So it was proven
that it's real body.
But how about three fingers?
How about three toes?
Maybe this is artificial.
Maybe this is just
attached, somehow.
I was able to get a sample from
a finger and from toe of María,
and we made extra
analysis of these samples.
And very important was proven
that this same material,
it is same chemical
composition, it's same DNA.
So we have no doubts now that
fingers, three fingers, three
toes, it belongs to this body.
>> Bones of any
mammalian skeleton,
they are incredibly complex,
which is a good thing for this
because they are going to be
extremely hard to reproduce.
Looking at this
skeleton, obviously we
have a fairly
humanoid-looking bone.
We've got the eyes that
are facing forward.
You can see rows of teeth
both above and below.
The shape of the
skull is interesting.
It's very elongated, an atypical
appearance of a human skull
like you and I know.
Looking at the rest
of the skeleton,
we have a thoracic spine that's
holding the ribs or your rib
cage of the chest.
All of that looks
very humanoid as well.
Femurs, we have the tibia
and fibula, all of that
is pretty typical.
And then even in
the forearm here,
you have bones called
the radius and ulna.
Now, what's
interesting here is we
see there is a
collection of bones here.
This is called the
carpus of the wrist.
That's a typical appearance.
But as we move outward,
we're seeing really
three distinct fingers,
which is fascinating.
The skull, I don't
see any suture lines.
There's no bones that are
separate in the skull.
They all appear fused.
So this appears to be a
solid, solid structure.
>> The first DNA test results
revealed that the white
substance preserving the
body was diatomaceous earth,
and that María was, in
fact, an organic specimen.
The isolation of
the X-chromosome
identified María as female.
The carbon-14 testing done in
Mexico revealed that María was
alive roughly 1,600
to 1,700 years ago,
in the period of
the Nazca culture.
United States-based testing
revealed roughly the same dating
of María as being
1,700 years old.
>> From the first DNA
analysis, it was proven that
it's human-like DNA.
It was proven, because we
know that now we have three
types of human-like creatures.
It is Neanderthals,
Cro-magnons like ourselves,
and Denisovan men.
With Denisovan men, they had
practically our skull, our type
of skull, no big difference.
But it was proven that they
have different type of DNA,
so that's why they were defined
as another type of human beings.
Now, at next level,
they have to make
much more detailed analysis and
much more complicated analysis.
So they will create
a library of genes,
and then they will be able to
compare this library of genes
with a database
of human subjects.
Then we'll see whether
it is exactly human-like
or it is a little bit different.
>> Konstantin, Jaime, and a team
of scientists returned to Peru
to conduct further research
on María and take more samples
for DNA testing.
They were looking to compare
these samples with a larger
genetic database,
searching for a match
with any modern human
species or any other known
species on the planet.
The DNA results from the
second samples taken from María
were tested in Saint
Petersburg, Russia,
and concluded that all samples
from the fingers, toes, and body
of María belonged
to the same species,
and the body was not
artificially constructed.
>> The beings from which
the samples were taken,
from which the DNA was analyzed
are not of any known terrestrial
origin.
They don't appear to match
any species on Earth.
So of the DNA that was
isolated, only 25% of the total
matched any known human gene.
The DNA results
were not at all--
support the idea that these were
human remains that were altered.
There's no support to
conclude that it's a hoax.
Individuals who are not
basing that off of data,
they're basing that off of
their opinion and perspective.
Now, based on my
opinion and perspective,
which I feel is
informed by the data,
I see strong
indications that suggest
it's an authentic, anomalous
remains of unknown origin.
It's a wow.
It's extremely surprising, yeah.
>> After we received this
high-resolution images, María,
she's human-like.
First of all, details of her
skull, anatomy of the skull.
Second, of course,
fingers, and toes.
So if you go step by step, then,
of course, first the skull.
On the skull, we see
that she has no ears.
And construction of her ear
bones different from us.
This is the first
main conclusion.
Then construction of
skull itself, it's
a little bit different.
Of course, it is
elongated skull.
Maybe not as elongated
as we can see in Paracas,
but still it is elongated.
It is more elongated compared
with our rounded skull.
Second, different
construction of bones of nose.
But all other topics of
the skull are very similar.
We don't have a lower
part of the body,
so neither organs of
reproduction, nor liver,
nor kidneys.
It's strange, but this
came to some conclusions
that maybe she was
attacked by some animal.
And Professor Galetsky
was able to find tracks
of claws, fangs on her body.
And all this low part of her
body is just, is taken away.
And then we see some
parts of particle
that may be related to blood.
But it is absolutely
clear that we
are facing with very
exciting situation,
because all data
that we have tells us
that it's not human-like.
It's not just simple
mutation, but it's
another type of human species.
We don't know whether it
was some line of humans
with elongated
skulls who was living
on the Earth for
maybe millenniums.
But I'm sure that
it will open up
a new page of human history
a new page of civilization
history.
>> When we see mummies like the
ones that have been discovered
recently in Nazca, we see
references to beings that
don't look quite human.
The question is, how
did they get here?
Many people assume they
came in physical vehicles,
and there is a search for those
vehicles that has not yielded
much in Peru to this day.
When you talk to
the shaman, you talk
to the locals and
their traditions,
they tell the story of an
even deeper technology.
Not a machine that carries
us from point A to point B,
rather a portal that allows
us to transcend the distances
of time and space, a stargate.
We see evidence
of these stargates
near Lake Titicaca in Peru.
We find carved into the
high quartz sandstone
cliffs, a doorway to
nowhere, that even today
is a sacred place for
the Indigenous people
who come and give offerings and
await their ancestors, they say
will pass back and forth
through this portal in time.
>> If in Nazca we find
really some mixed creatures,
then we would find a proof
of extraterrestrials,
and I will be the
first one to be very,
very happy because I'm accused
by the scientific community
since 60 years that there
are no extraterrestrials.
And if they would
be, they would never
come here because of the
distance, et cetera, et cetera.
So I would be happy to support,
yes, finally, we have a proof.
But in our scientific
community, they
do not accept extraterrestrial
life on Earth.
Extraterrestrials in our
scientific community,
including in our media, is
still something to be ridiculed.
>> With the Peruvian
anomalies mounting,
the mysterious beings depicted
by ancient artists raise more
questions about the presence of
an alternative species that may
have worked within the planet.
>> The art of Peru is
particularly strange.
And in particular, one odd
character that appears again
and again is what is
known to the archeologists
as "the harvester."
This is a mythical being
that is often shown
with seeds and agriculture.
But what's so strange
about this figure
is that it's
generally always shown
with three fingers
and three toes.
Is this some simplification of
the depiction of the human form?
Or does it represent some kind
of being that actually had
three fingers and three toes?
>> When we look at these
depictions of the harvesters,
we cannot help but notice a
strong similarity to the Nazca
mummy named María, meaning the
long slender bodies with a large
head where there's no ears and
three fingers on each hand.
And that opens a wide array of
questions like, who was María?
Where does she come from?
We look to her
genetics and we see
there's a good portion of
it is similar to humans,
but there's another
portion that is unknown.
So we wonder now, was María
part-human part something else?
Or is María strictly a
harvester with these harvesters
a different sort of
being that interacted
with the ancient
cultures of Peru?
We don't know.
And so this opens
the mysteries that we
need to explore to
an even deeper level.
>> I was talking to the local
archeologists, and I asked them,
why do so many mummies or
skeletons have three fingers?
And they say, because
they were not humans.
The three fingers, they
say they were not humans.
At least that's what
some archeologists say.
But again, other
archeologists contradict.
The fact is, we have these
figures with three fingers.
Terrestrials have five fingers.
And everyone knew this,
including in the past.
Why did somebody make some
humans with three fingers?
We have no answer, I think,
because they represent
the extraterrestrials.
>> My job mainly was reverse
engineering controls and craft.
I know of probably
five or six races
that all have three fingers.
I would say probably most
of the aliens have three.
Almost all of what we
would call flying saucers
had control panels that were
for three-fingered beings.
>> Looking at the mysterious
anomalies of Peru,
like the unexplainable
sites, the elongated skulls,
even the Nazca lines, it
suggests that there already was
an extraterrestrial influence
upon their civilizations.
But it was the
discovery of María
that brings forward
strong evidence suggesting
that, indeed, Peru
was this nexus
point for
extraterrestrial contact
and extraterrestrial influence
upon their civilization.
>> These beings
left us something,
some kind of knowledge.
We're only beginning
to understand,
and once again, the
only way that we
can make sense of the mystery
is to think differently
about ourselves.
This is the mystery of Peru,
one of the most intact, one
of the least explored sites.
What is it that we
haven't found yet?
What sites remain to be seen?
And once we find them, will we
be honest enough with ourselves
to accept the story
that they tell?
>> In 2019, María was
transferred to the Universidad
Nacional San Luis Gonzaga de
Ica for further evaluation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]